packages.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: the cloudyr project
description: Here's the list of R packages that we are currently working on.
---

## current cloudyr packages ##

Here's what we're working on so far. Most of the packages are available in [our drat repository](../drat). The [Travis CI status page](https://travis-ci.org/cloudyr) can be used to check the build status of development versions (on GitHub).

| Category | Package | Service | Available From drat | On CRAN | 
|----------|---------|---------|---------------------|---------|
| Bundle | [awspack](https://github.com/cloudyr/awspack) | All Amazon Web Services | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/awspack)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=awspack) |
| Storage  | [aws.s3](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.s3) | [Amazon Simple Storage Service](http://aws.amazon.com/s3/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.s3)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.s3) |
| | [aws.efs](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.efs) | [Amazon Elastic File System](http://aws.amazon.com/efs/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.efs)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.efs) |
| | [aws.glacier](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.glacier) | [Amazon Glacier](http://aws.amazon.com/glacier/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.glacier)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.glacier) |
| | [googleCloudStorageR](https://github.com/cloudyr/googleCloudStorageR) | [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/googleCloudStorageR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=googleCloudStorageR) |
| | [rdatastore](https://github.com/cloudyr/rdatastore) | [Google Data Store](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/concepts/overview) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rdatastore)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=rdatastore) |
| | [imguR](https://github.com/cloudyr/imguR) | [imgur](http://imgur.com/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/imguR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=imguR) |
| | [rcribd](https://github.com/cloudyr/rcribd) | [scribd](https://www.scribd.com/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rscribd)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=rscribd) |
| Databases/Data stores | [bigQueryR](https://github.com/cloudyr/bigQueryR) | [Google BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/bigQueryR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=bigQueryR) |
| Infrastructure | [aws.ses](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.ses) | [Amazon Simple Email Service](http://aws.amazon.com/ses/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.ses)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.ses) |
| | [aws.sns](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.sns) | [Amazon Simple Notification Service](http://aws.amazon.com/sns/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.sns)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.sns) |
| | [aws.sqs](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.sqs) | [Amazon Simple Queue Service](http://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.sqs)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.sqs) |
| Computing | [aws.ec2](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.ec2) | [Amazon EC2](http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.ec2)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.ec2) |
| | [googleComputeEngineR](https://github.com/cloudyr/googleComputeEngineR) | R Interface with Google Compute Engine | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/googleComputeEngineR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=googleComputeEngineR) |
| | [rmote](https://github.com/cloudyr/rmote) | Serve Graphics over HTTP a from Remote Server | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rmote)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=rmote) |
| Information | [aws.alexa](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.alexa) | [Amazon Alexa](https://aws.amazon.com/awis/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.alexa)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.alexa) |
| Administration | [aws.iam](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.iam) | [Amazon Identity and Access Management](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.iam)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.iam) |
| | [aws.cloudtrail](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.cloudtrail) | [Amazon Cloudtrail](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.cloudtrail)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.cloudtrail) |
| | [aws.cloudwatch](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.cloudwatch) | [Amazon Cloudwatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.cloudwatch)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.cloudwatch) |
| | [aws.signature](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.signature) | AWS API Request Signatures  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.signature)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.signature) |
| Machine Learning as a Service | [RoogleVision](https://github.com/cloudyr/RoogleVision) | [Google Vision](https://cloud.google.com/vision/) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/RoogleVision)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=RoogleVision) |
| Speech Synthesis/Text-to-Speech | [aws.polly](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.polly) | [AWS Polly](https://aws.amazon.com/polly/) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.polly)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.polly) |
| Crowdsourcing | [MTurkR](https://github.com/cloudyr/MTurkR) | [Amazon Mechanical Turk](https://www.mturk.com/mturk/welcome) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/MTurkR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=MTurkR) |
| | [MTurkRGUI](https://github.com/cloudyr/MTurkRGUI) | GUI for MTurkR | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/MTurkRGUI)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=MTurkRGUI) |
| | [crowdflower](https://github.com/cloudyr/crowdflower) | [Crowdflower](https://www.crowdflower.com/) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/crowdflower)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=crowdflower) |
| | [microworkers](https://github.com/cloudyr/microworkers) | [Microworkers](https://microworkers.com/) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/microworkers)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=microworkers) |
| Web Surveys | [limer](https://github.com/cloudyr/limer) | [LimeSurvey](https://www.limesurvey.org/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/limer)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=limer) |
|  | [Rmonkey](https://github.com/cloudyr/Rmonkey) | [Survey Monkey](https://www.surveymonkey.com/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/Rmonkey)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=Rmonkey) |
| Package Development | [travisci](https://github.com/cloudyr/travisci) | [Travis-CI](https://travis-ci.org/) API Client  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/travisci)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=travisci) |
|  | [appveyor](https://github.com/cloudyr/appveyor) | [Appveyor](https://www.appveyor.com/) API Client  | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/appveyor)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=appveyor) |
|  | [circleci](https://github.com/cloudyr/circleci) | [Circle-CI](https://circleci.com/) API Client  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/circleci)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=circleci) |
|  | [aws.code](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.code) | [Amazon CodeCommit](https://aws.amazon.com/codecommit/)  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.code)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.code) |

Contributions are always welcome. See [the cloudyr style guide](../styleguide) for guidance on package development, structure, and coding style. Pull requests via GitHub are the preferred way to contribute code and documentation. Ideas, brainstorming, and general discussion are welcome as issues on project-specific repositories or in [cloudyr's gitter chatroom](https://gitter.im/cloudyr). If you would like to contribute a new package, have a look at [the contributing page](../contributing).

<!--
 - [aws.container](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.container): EC2 container client
 - [aws.vpc](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.vpc): Virtual Private Cloud client
 - [aws.emr](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.emr): Elastic Map Reduce (Hadoop) client
 - [aws.lambda](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.lamda): Lamda (event-driven computing) client
 - [aws.kinesis](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.kinesis): Kinesis (data stream processing) client
 - [aws.datapipeline](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.datapipeline): Data Pipeline (task scheduling) client
 - [aws.elb](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.elb): Elastic Load Balancing (EC2 distribution) client
 - [aws.cf](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.cf): CloudFormation client
 - [aws.config](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.config): Config client
-->
 
 
## Installation Instructions ##

As they are released, all packages are hosted in [a drat repository](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/drat) on this website (specifically: [http://cloudyr.github.io/drat](http://cloudyr.github.io/drat)) and versions are updated daily and are periodically released to CRAN. This means you can install and upgrade cloudyr packages quite simply directly from R:

```R
if (!require("drat")) {
    install.packages("drat")
    library("drat")
}
drat::addRepo("cloudyr", "http://cloudyr.github.io/drat")
install.packages("NameOfPackage")
```

To make this even easier, you can add `drat::addRepo("cloudyr")` to your `.Rprofile` or `Rprofile.site` file, so that the cloudyr repository is available every time you open R.


### Installation using devtools ###

You can also install packages using `ghit::install_github()` or `devtools::install_github()`. Note, however, that all stable versions of packages are automatically added to the cloudyr drat, so you can always retrieve a stable version using the above workflow. To obtain a potentially unstable version, use:

```R
if (!require("devtools")) {
    install.packages("devtools")
    library("devtools")
}
install_github("cloudyr/NameOfPackage")
```

Commit message:

add cloudcidrs to packages page

packages.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: the cloudyr project
description: Here's the list of R packages that we are currently working on.
---

## current cloudyr packages ##

Here's what we're working on so far. Most of the packages are available in [our drat repository](../drat). The [Travis CI status page](https://travis-ci.org/cloudyr) can be used to check the build status of development versions (on GitHub).

| Category | Package | Service | Available From drat | On CRAN | 
|----------|---------|---------|---------------------|---------|
| Bundle | [awspack](https://github.com/cloudyr/awspack) | All Amazon Web Services | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/awspack)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=awspack) |
| Storage  | [aws.s3](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.s3) | [Amazon Simple Storage Service](http://aws.amazon.com/s3/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.s3)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.s3) |
| | [aws.efs](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.efs) | [Amazon Elastic File System](http://aws.amazon.com/efs/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.efs)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.efs) |
| | [aws.glacier](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.glacier) | [Amazon Glacier](http://aws.amazon.com/glacier/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.glacier)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.glacier) |
| | [googleCloudStorageR](https://github.com/cloudyr/googleCloudStorageR) | [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/googleCloudStorageR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=googleCloudStorageR) |
| | [rdatastore](https://github.com/cloudyr/rdatastore) | [Google Data Store](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/concepts/overview) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rdatastore)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=rdatastore) |
| | [imguR](https://github.com/cloudyr/imguR) | [imgur](http://imgur.com/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/imguR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=imguR) |
| | [rcribd](https://github.com/cloudyr/rcribd) | [scribd](https://www.scribd.com/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rscribd)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=rscribd) |
| Databases/Data stores | [bigQueryR](https://github.com/cloudyr/bigQueryR) | [Google BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/bigQueryR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=bigQueryR) |
| Infrastructure | [aws.ses](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.ses) | [Amazon Simple Email Service](http://aws.amazon.com/ses/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.ses)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.ses) |
| | [aws.sns](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.sns) | [Amazon Simple Notification Service](http://aws.amazon.com/sns/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.sns)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.sns) |
| | [aws.sqs](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.sqs) | [Amazon Simple Queue Service](http://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.sqs)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.sqs) |
| | [cloudcidrs](https://github.com/cloudyr/cloudcidrs) | Tools to Obtain and Work with Cloud Provider CIDR Blocks | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/cloudcidrs)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=cloudcidrs) |
| Computing | [aws.ec2](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.ec2) | [Amazon EC2](http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.ec2)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.ec2) |
| | [googleComputeEngineR](https://github.com/cloudyr/googleComputeEngineR) | R Interface with Google Compute Engine | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/googleComputeEngineR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=googleComputeEngineR) |
| | [rmote](https://github.com/cloudyr/rmote) | Serve Graphics over HTTP a from Remote Server | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/rmote)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=rmote) |
| Information | [aws.alexa](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.alexa) | [Amazon Alexa](https://aws.amazon.com/awis/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.alexa)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.alexa) |
| Administration | [aws.iam](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.iam) | [Amazon Identity and Access Management](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.iam)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.iam) |
| | [aws.cloudtrail](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.cloudtrail) | [Amazon Cloudtrail](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.cloudtrail)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.cloudtrail) |
| | [aws.cloudwatch](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.cloudwatch) | [Amazon Cloudwatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.cloudwatch)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.cloudwatch) |
| | [aws.signature](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.signature) | AWS API Request Signatures  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.signature)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.signature) |
| Machine Learning as a Service | [RoogleVision](https://github.com/cloudyr/RoogleVision) | [Google Vision](https://cloud.google.com/vision/) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/RoogleVision)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=RoogleVision) |
| Speech Synthesis/Text-to-Speech | [aws.polly](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.polly) | [AWS Polly](https://aws.amazon.com/polly/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.polly)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.polly) |
| Crowdsourcing | [MTurkR](https://github.com/cloudyr/MTurkR) | [Amazon Mechanical Turk](https://www.mturk.com/mturk/welcome) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/MTurkR)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=MTurkR) |
| | [MTurkRGUI](https://github.com/cloudyr/MTurkRGUI) | GUI for MTurkR | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/MTurkRGUI)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=MTurkRGUI) |
| | [crowdflower](https://github.com/cloudyr/crowdflower) | [Crowdflower](https://www.crowdflower.com/) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/crowdflower)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=crowdflower) |
| | [microworkers](https://github.com/cloudyr/microworkers) | [Microworkers](https://microworkers.com/) | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/microworkers)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=microworkers) |
| Web Surveys | [limer](https://github.com/cloudyr/limer) | [LimeSurvey](https://www.limesurvey.org/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/limer)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=limer) |
|  | [Rmonkey](https://github.com/cloudyr/Rmonkey) | [Survey Monkey](https://www.surveymonkey.com/) | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/Rmonkey)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=Rmonkey) |
| Package Development | [travisci](https://github.com/cloudyr/travisci) | [Travis-CI](https://travis-ci.org/) API Client  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/travisci)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=travisci) |
|  | [appveyor](https://github.com/cloudyr/appveyor) | [Appveyor](https://www.appveyor.com/) API Client  | No | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/appveyor)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=appveyor) |
|  | [circleci](https://github.com/cloudyr/circleci) | [Circle-CI](https://circleci.com/) API Client  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/circleci)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=circleci) |
|  | [aws.code](https://github.com/cloudyr/aws.code) | [Amazon CodeCommit](https://aws.amazon.com/codecommit/)  | Yes | [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/aws.code)](https://cloud.r-project.org/package=aws.code) |

Contributions are always welcome. See [the cloudyr style guide](../styleguide) for guidance on package development, structure, and coding style. Pull requests via GitHub are the preferred way to contribute code and documentation. Ideas, brainstorming, and general discussion are welcome as issues on project-specific repositories or in [cloudyr's gitter chatroom](https://gitter.im/cloudyr). If you would like to contribute a new package, have a look at [the contributing page](../contributing).

<!--
 - [aws.container](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.container): EC2 container client
 - [aws.vpc](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.vpc): Virtual Private Cloud client
 - [aws.emr](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.emr): Elastic Map Reduce (Hadoop) client
 - [aws.lambda](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.lamda): Lamda (event-driven computing) client
 - [aws.kinesis](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.kinesis): Kinesis (data stream processing) client
 - [aws.datapipeline](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.datapipeline): Data Pipeline (task scheduling) client
 - [aws.elb](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.elb): Elastic Load Balancing (EC2 distribution) client
 - [aws.cf](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.cf): CloudFormation client
 - [aws.config](http://github.com/cloudyr/aws.config): Config client
-->
 
 
## Installation Instructions ##

As they are released, all packages are hosted in [a drat repository](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/drat) on this website (specifically: [http://cloudyr.github.io/drat](http://cloudyr.github.io/drat)) and versions are updated daily and are periodically released to CRAN. This means you can install and upgrade cloudyr packages quite simply directly from R:

```R
if (!require("drat")) {
    install.packages("drat")
    library("drat")
}
drat::addRepo("cloudyr", "http://cloudyr.github.io/drat")
install.packages("NameOfPackage")
```

To make this even easier, you can add `drat::addRepo("cloudyr")` to your `.Rprofile` or `Rprofile.site` file, so that the cloudyr repository is available every time you open R.


### Installation using devtools ###

You can also install packages using `ghit::install_github()` or `devtools::install_github()`. Note, however, that all stable versions of packages are automatically added to the cloudyr drat, so you can always retrieve a stable version using the above workflow. To obtain a potentially unstable version, use:

```R
if (!require("devtools")) {
    install.packages("devtools")
    library("devtools")
}
install_github("cloudyr/NameOfPackage")
```
